The mammary artery has been used in coronary vascularization for years starting in the 50s as part of the Vineberg procedure in which the mammary artery was implanted directly to the myocardium.
The technique of direct coronary anastomosis with the aid of magnifying loupes was perfected at the Cleveland Clinic by Favaloro and his associates.
And in this paper by Loop and associates from the Cleveland Clinic published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1986,
the superiority of a mammary artery compared to saphenous vein grafts was demonstrated both in terms of graft patency and clinical outcomes and established the mammary to LAD as the quintessential component of a CABG.
In this video, we start by showing the harvesting of the right internal mammary artery.
The left internal mammary artery has already been harvested.
We utilize the non-touch technique with minimal manipulation of the conduit itself.
We grab the periadventitial tissue and fat and use the forceps to push the conduit away from the surrounding tissues.
Branches are controlled with the use of electrocautery or application of hemoclips as demonstrated here.
The field has to be bloodless.
The use of a piece of gauze to apply traction is also a useful atraumatic technique in harvesting skeletonized mammaries or for that matter, pedicled mammaries.
If you get into bleeding, take time to carefully identify the branch source, control it and apply a clip as demonstrated here.
The electrocautery is usually set at 20 or 30 to minimize the risk of thermal injury to the conduit.
Our aim is to harvest a mammary that has minimal hematomas and looks white and suffers no spasm.
Here, one of the terminal branches of the right internal mammary artery is being clipped and cut.
Notice that a nice lengthy skeletonized mammary ends with supplying the right diaphragm.
Next, we move proximally to mobilize the mammary.
We use the fingers of the left hand to retract on the mammary and push away the lungs.
In addition, we ask for anesthesia’s help to use low tidal volumes or hold ventilation as necessary to achieve our objective.